RFC 400: RUM AppMonitor L2 Construct (#408)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0400-appmonitor-l2.md

## Working Backwards

### CHANGELOG

`feat(rum): AppMonitor L2; Import, Generate code snippet`

### README

---

# Amazon CloudWatch RUM Construct Library

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [App Monitor](#appmonitor)
  - [Authorizer](#authorizer)
    - [Existing Cognito ID pool](#use-an-existing-amazon-cognito-identity-pool)
    - [Third-party provider](#use-third-party-provider)
  - [Code Snippet](#code-snippet)
    - [RUM web client configuration](#rum-web-client-configuration)
    - [With s3 deployment](#with-s3-deployment)
  - [Importing App Monigor](#importing-app-monitor)

## Introduction

CloudWatch RUM is monitoring tool that can perform real user monitoring to collect
and view client-side data about your web application performance from actual user sessions in near real time.

This module supports the ability for users to create CloudWatch RUM and retrieve code snippets on CloudFormation.

## App Monitor

Define `AppMonitor` to your stack:

```ts
import * as rum from '@aws-cdk/aws-rum';

const appMonitor = new rum.AppMonitor(this, 'AppMonitor', {
  domain: 'amazon.com',
  appMonitorName: 'my-app-monitor'
});
```

### Authorizer

> By default, AppMonitor creates a new Amazon Cognito identity pool and uses it to authenticate the put event.

Reviewer: A suggestion to make it clear to users what exactly is happening. 
```suggestion
By default, when you create a new `AppMonitor` construct, CDK creates a new Amazon Cognito identity pool. This identity pool is used by CloudWatch to...
```

#### Use an existing Amazon Cognito identity pool

If you want to use an existing Amazon Cognito identity pool, you need to pass a `CognitoIdentityPoolAuthorizer` instance.

```ts
import * as rum from '@aws-cdk/aws-rum';
import * as iam from '@aws-cdk/aws-iam';

declare const myRole: iam.IRole;

const appMonitor = new rum.AppMonitor(this, 'AppMonitor', {
  domain: 'amazon.com',
  appMonitorName: 'my-app-monitor',
  authorizer: new rum.CognitoIdentityPoolAuthorizer({
    identityPoolId: 'my-user-pool-id',
    unauthenticatedRole: myRole,
  }),
});
```

#### Use Third-party provider

You can also use a third party authenticator as in `CognitoIdentityPoolAuthorizer`.

```ts
import * as rum from '@aws-cdk/aws-rum';
import * as iam from '@aws-cdk/aws-iam';

declare const myRole: iam.IRole;

const appMonitor = new rum.AppMonitor(this, 'AppMonitor', {
  domain: 'amazon.com',
  appMonitorName: 'my-app-monitor',
  authorizer: new rum.ThirdPartyAuthorizer({
    role: myRole,
  }),
});
```

### Code Snippet

> AppMonitor generates a code snippet that looks like to create on the management console. Note, however,

Reviewer: I think this sentence is missing something?

> that unlike the management console, the code snippets do not have `<script>` tags because the CDK expects them to be automatically embedded in the application.

Reviewer: Can you explain further why the generated code snippet should not include the `<script>` tag?

```ts
import * as rum from '@aws-cdk/aws-rum';

const appMonitor = new rum.AppMonitor(this, 'AppMonitor', {
  domain: 'amazon.com',
  appMonitorName: 'my-app-monitor'
});

// (function(n,i,v,r,s,c,x,z){...})

> const codeSnippet = appMonitor.generateCodeSnippet('CodeSnippet');

Reviewer: How would the customer then use the code snippet? We should show an example of how they can take this an actually insert it into their application code.

```

#### RUM web client configuration

If you want to use [RUM web client arguments](https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-rum-web/blob/main/docs/cdn_installation.md#arguments)
 (e.g applicationVersion, cookieAttributes), you can pass options to `generateCodeSnippet` argument.

```ts
import * as rum from '@aws-cdk/aws-rum';

const appMonitor = new rum.AppMonitor(this, 'AppMonitor', {
  domain: 'amazon.com',
  appMonitorName: 'my-app-monitor'
});

const codeSnippet = appMonitor.generateCodeSnippet('CodeSnippet', {
  applicationVersion: '1.1.0',
  configuration: {
    pageIdFormat: rum.PageIdFormat.HASH
  }
});
```

#### With s3 deployment

> By using S3 Deployment, you can automate embeded to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using S3 Deployment, you can automate embedding the CloudWatch RUM code snippet into your application.
```

This example is shortest way that deploy site using RUM.

```ts
import * as rum from '@aws-cdk/aws-rum';
import * as s3 from '@aws-cdk/aws-s3';
import * as s3deploy from '@aws-cdk/aws-s3-deployment';

const webSiteBucket = new s3.Bucket(this, 'WebSiteBucket', {
  publicReadAccess: true,
  websiteIndexDocument: 'index.html'
});
const appMonitor = new rum.AppMonitor(this, 'AppMonitor', {
  domain: webSiteBucket.bucketWebsiteDomainName,
  appMonitorName: 'my-app-monitor'
});
const codeSnippet = appMonitor.generateCodeSnippet('CodeSnippet');
const rumJs = s3deploy.Source.data('rum.js', codeSnippet);

const html = s3deploy.Source.data('index.html', `<html>
  <head>
    <script src="/rum.js" async="true"></script>
  </head>
  <body>Hello RUM</body>
</html>`);

new s3deploy.BucketDeployment(this, 'BucketDeployment', {
  sources: [html, rumJs],
  destinationBucket: webSiteBucket

> });

Reviewer: Practically speaking, I don't think developers are going to write raw HTML inline like this. Also part of this is boilerplate, like specifying the script name `rum.js` twice. Can we make this simpler? And closer to a real-world scenario?

## Internal FAQ

### Why are we doing this?

Because RUM AppMonitor L1 construct doesn't provide code snippet and app monitor id.
It is certainly possible to use a pre-prepared code script. But what about the following example?

> A team is using git and CI/CD, and this team creates a new environment for every pull requests.
> The team use single code snippet for all environments, so the app monitor was full of noises that from experimental branche environments.
> Next, the team changed to create a new app monitor for every environment. After then,
> the team was troubled by to need access the managenemt console every create a new environments.

Yes, this is my actual experience. I thought we needs this feature for CDK by this experience.

### Why should we _not_ do this?

If we don't implement this feature, we need manualy deployment or to create solution for generate code snippet ourself. They are risky.

Downsides of implementing this feature is to need update of RUM web client type Irregularly.

### What is the technical solution (design) of this feature?

> #### Type Definetions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Type Definitions
```
